# Raytracer 3 assignment for computer graphics
==============================================
Authors: Daniël Haitink and Robin Entjes

The map code contains all needed files. In code/scenefiles there are yaml scenes and images generated by the program.
In code/textures you can find the textures which can be used and in code/objects the obj files are stored.

In images, the rendered images can be found. Note that we weren't able to render a very beatiful and complex 3d model due to time shortage and my macbook would take a very long time doing this. However in theory this is possible, since we were able to render simple objects.

Create the program by running: make ./ray Then run: ./ray senefiles/"filename".yaml Alternatively, ray.sh can be run, which generates the program and creates all the images (takes a while).

Changes
==============================================
Raytracer.cpp/.h
We added code to parse the new parameters: Gooch shading parameters, sphere angle, textures, Quads, RealPlanes, Cylinders and Objects (.obj). Objects are a special case since they use the GLM code and parse a .obj file.

Scene.cpp/.h
In Trace we added the possibility for gooch shading. If this is wanted, trace uses gooch instead of phong. Trace can also use the texture color instead of the material color using UV coordinates. This only works for spheres. Furthermore, addImages can read textures into a pointer array of images if textures are needed.

Sphere.cpp/.h
Spheres can now return UV coordinates which can be used for textures. A rotation around the x-axis can also be used now if you add "angle" to the yaml file.

Obj.cpp/.h
This contains an GLMmodel and a position. It is a obj object and it will be parsed as triangles.

Quad.cpp/.h
A quad is added, which is created from 4 points. The points are rendered as two triangles (Points 1, 2, 3 and Points 2,3,4).

RealPlane.cpp/.h
A realPlane is added, since the older plane was not really correct. It now uses a vector and a point which create the plane.

Cylinder.cpp/.h
Cylinder is not working at this point and should not be used

Object.cpp/.h
Object is extended so it supports the UV coordinate function of the objects.

Material.cpp/.h
Material is also extended with a string which includes the texturefile name if it uses one. It also has a bool stating if it uses a texture and an int which shows the position of the texture in the textures array created in scene.

GLM.c/.h
GLM is added in order to parse obj objects.


